If you look to that, in a way, you're investigating it three times, past, present, and future.
Past and present and future. And so, now we're applying that to the mind, where mind came, came in
the past.
Past, where mind stayed in the past, where mind went in the past. And we ask those questions as
greater in the teaching sense.
There's nothing we have answered. Each question we answer will be speechless. Each of those speech
less answers.
Now we think of a future, for example, where future mind was going to come, and where future mind
will stay,
and where future mind will go. Again, it's speechless. Now we'll think of the present.
The present is right here, with us. Past is vast. It's gone. That's what's called past. Future is
not yet alive.
That's what's called future. The present, we all think, is here. It's true. The present is here.
That is something that's reachable with us. So, now we're going to think of our present, where the
present mind is coming.
We think again. Within the present, we divide again three. Where the present mind is came or coming
.
Where the present mind is now. Where the present mind is going.
And when we ask that question again to us, each time is speechless. There's nothing really we can
answer.
So, that means there is no mind. Reality level, there's no mind. No mind as we believe.
Believed mind, something exists. There's no mind as what we believed. We're looking now with our
own intelligence.
Our own mind, with our own, to our own mind. To our mind, with our mind. By ourself.
So then, therefore, it is called emptiness mind. This mind, emptiness.
Also known as, this emptiness of the mind is the source of all this discipline.
As we went, as I said, all the samsara came from this emptiness mind.
And nirvana coming from this emptiness mind. Yet, mind is emptiness. That's how mind is.
And therefore, sense of this comes from all from the mind in emptiness, samsara. Samsara is empty.
Sense of nirvana comes from the mind and nirvana is empty. Therefore, samsara is illusion.
Nirvana is illusion. It's all know it. It's in the illusion level, it's the same. There's no
difference.
However, samsara is, then, that means what samsara means, grasping and cling.
That is samsara. Such as, again, you can't keep up with the gharamu. You use it many times.
That this, by the mohoram bhudjicthi, he said, there is no samsara beyond dualities or grasping.
That's what the mohoram bhudjicthi said. As the kijiram bhudjicthi kiram bhudjicthi, many times he
said,
there's samsara, there is no samsara beyond grasping.
Grasping is duality, samsaras. What is we grasping? We grasping something that is not existing.
That is wrong. That is a mistake. That is a double miracle. That means troubles.
With grasping and clinging, something will not exist. That's how we, something that is not existing
,
we grasping, we clinging, we hope. Hope. And the reality level, grasping, every nature is changing,
but still we hope, still we're grasping. That is what really all these troubles.
And this nirvana, no grasping, no clinging, even the display. Therefore, nirvana is, what in the
teachings,
nirvana is comfortable, nirvana is relaxed, nirvana is pure, nirvana is just completely everything,
isn't comfort and all that, because it not comes from the grasping, not developed the grasping.
It's developed by the true love, true compassion, true wisdom, that has no conversation of the dual
ities.
Infinite love, infinite compassion, infinite wisdom, combination of that display arises.
And therefore, everything is so beautiful, pure, perfect, and all those nirvana explanations,
or the pure land, such as pure land explanations. That is what it is.
So therefore, now, by knowing this, now we, with this, now mind is empty.
And also, his mind is not just an empty, blank status. Emptiness is a conception.
That is our conception of duality. We can't really kind of handle too much.
So therefore, just we have to say emptiness. But reality level,
nature, mind is beyond of the emptiness and not emptiness. This is beyond that.
Notion of emptiness is kind of more negation. Negation is not nature. Negation is dualities.
Negation is grasping. Negation is extremes. Nature is not.
For that reason, what it teaches is beyond. Beyond the emptiness and non-emptiness.
That is what the nature of the mind is. Now, with that understanding, we now do the practices.
And this--